FITNESS IN THE ASHRAM BACK IN THE DAY
Do you ever wonder what group was like 40 years ago and how much it has changed since then? Wonder no more! We, being very curious to know, wanted to reach out and ask one of our coaches what it was like, and who better to ask our questions to than Vimaura Di? 
Her answers to our questions reveal a slice of her life. 
1. How did you manage to push yourself at times you wanted to give up?
A strong sense of discipline and duty inculcated by captains and teachers.
2. How did you become better everyday?
Effort and will to learn and apply
 3. What are some aspects, group-wise, that were different from what they are now?
Discipline, strict mutes, consequences for misbehaviour and indiscipline.
 4. When and how did you realize the importance of exercise?
Till group C did exercise as part of group discipline (seriously never any bunking). With independence to do our own exercise and maturity realized that good, correct exercise will affect / improve performance.
5. Has the level of our generation's capacities gone down? If so, why?
Yes. Lack of motivation, lack of goals, lack of good lifestyle, lack of belief in system
6. Did fitness come naturally to you or did you have to work hard to reach your goals?
Some amount natural, some amount hard work
7. How did exercise and fitness help your mental health?
With good fitness confidence in the body grows and the possibility of applying will to the body increases. And that way mental health and power also grow. 
 8. How does exercise help the other activities in Group?
Seniors and comrades. Observing their focus, will power.
 9. What made you continue doing exercise to this day?
The benefits it brings health, fitness, a sense of well-being, confidence in oneself
 10. What is your definition of yoga?
Work on oneself. (at every level-mental, vital and physical. 
 11.How did your attitude towards exercise affect your results? Did it help in your improvement?
Once you start enjoying exercise you see a difference in the body and vice versa. And then results or performance is a logical consequence.
12. Where did you get your inspiration from? Was there a source driving you to do the challenging things you did?
When I was your age, I had the usual desire to do well and come first in group championship. Later, a message of the Mother's changed my whole attitude and since then have always tried to implement that. 
On Education, vol.12 p.275 Athletics competition 1962
 13. Do you still have goals you want to achieve?
There should always be. Yes I do. Physically one can't keep getting better or stronger. But one can get more conscious, more receptive. 
 14. Was there a big difference/separation between boys and girls at the time?
The difference will always be there. It's biological, but there was a large number of girls in the 1st group with the boys than now (obviously only in games, swimming.)
As we see from Vimaura Di's answers, the standard, higher than it is now, was maintained almost effortlessly. Though the capacities are still the same, the attitude of the students at the time was much better, from their concentration and performance to their enjoyment and sincerity. Most of us, even with constant encouragement from captains and coaches, will need a hard push to exercise well and do the best we can. 
Hearing Vimaura Di, a teacher and a coach who has been in the Ashram for the major part of her life is an inspiration to all children, especially girls of our age. 
The potential is still there in us, but our motivation, spirit and attitude towards sports has diminished over the years. Personally we feel that Vimaura Di, describing her experiences as a student, motivates us to assimilate the qualities that students have had in the past. 
We hope this motivates and encourages you as well, to do your best and improve in the field of physical education.
By Sahana and Anaaya (special thanks to Vimaura Di !)
