The moon shone palely in the night sky, and Elsa realized it had started to snow. The cold made her tremble more than she already was and suddenly, as she clung to the tree her eyes brimmed over with tears. The millions of thoughts and questions that came and went were like uncontrollable waves in a sea of violent currents and whirlpools. Every time they appeared, she felt like she had been plunged under the surface, into the choking silence of the ocean. She was alone, fearful, unable to understand what was happening, and each time a new thought engulfed her she was pushed farther down. She toppled nauseous, settled herself on the hard stone path beneath the tree and hugged her knees, seeking the warmth of her coat. Her watery eyes finally overflowed and she sobbed into her sleeve. Each tear that left her beautiful brown eyes turned to ice as soon as it felt the absence of the warmly flushed skin it had escaped from.
Then everything became still. She felt nothing, all emotion gone, and heard only a dim ringing that seemed to resonate from within her very being. Slowly the shapes around her blurred, like a pane a frosted glass had been passed over her eyes. The shapes kept merging together, getting blurrier and blurrier until she could only distinguish a blank gray slate. The next moment, she was falling. As her limp body descended into an unknown void, it got darker, darker and darker still. In the end it was all black. She had lost her sense of feeling to such an extent that she barely realized when she had stopped falling. Only a slow throbbing pain rising in her chest made her realize that she had reached the bottom of the chasm. Her eyes were pried open by the little voice in her mind:
Where am I? Where am I?
But eyes open or not, she saw the same thing. Darkness.

 This is an extract from a short story  whose release date is 1st January 2025

Elsa, a fourteen year old girl who has suffered the untimely death of her twin sister and has cut herself off from the world, must fight her way through the shadows of depression that have been thrust upon her. As Elsa struggles to cope with the loss, and tries to make her peace with her sister’s passing, a young girl full of innocence appears in Elsa’s life, and endeavors to help her rediscover joy. Will Elsa succeed in becoming herself again? Or will she sink even deeper and lose herself completely?

Author: Surya-Savitri Dessirier (EAVP5)

“ I don’t know… but I fear if we don’t do something soon, she might …. You know…. Give up.”
